---
title: "PMS"
classes: wide
categories:
  - Health
tags:
  - Women's Health
  - Awareness
---

## PMS...

Hey Folks,

I really wanted to write about this for a very long time. 3 out of every 5 women out there suffer from this, but in reality, only 2 out of 5 women know about this. Yes, I am writing about PMS (Pre Menstrual Stress) in this blog. I feel that every man and woman out there should know about it and understand what is happening inside her.

###What is PMS?
Pre Menstrual Stress – the various changes which happen 1-2 weeks before your period begins that affects your work or family life is known as PMS. This is commonly seen in women who are in their late 20’s or women who have had a child.

###What are the symptoms?</h2>
The symptoms may be physical or emotional, could involve one or more or all of the following, and could be different each month. Some of the most common symptoms include acne, breast tenderness, bloated tummy, cramps, muscle ache, headache (migraine), irritability, mood swings, hunger pangs, sleeplessness, hyper activeness, staying away from the crowd.

All you need to do is observe your periods for about 3 consecutive months and jot down what you experience. There are many apps for all this, you can choose the one that suits you. The symptoms usually fade away after your periods start.

###Why does this happen?
There is no proper evidence-based study on why this is happening, but it is usually due to the hormonal changes. Certain factors like increased salt intake increased sugar intake, increase intake of alcohol and caffeine aids PMS.

###How does a woman usually react while in PMS?
A woman who would have been very calm even for major issues all through the month could get easily irritated or angry or emotional even for petty and simple issues. A simple conversation could turn into a heated argument.
Mood swings and irritability are pretty common during PMS. She may be happy for no reason one moment and then immediately sad for no reason. She will not be able to control her anger.

###Why our previous generations did not suffer from it?<
I look at this question differently. Women have always suffered from PMS since the age of Adam and Eve. But in the past, the women weren’t able to expose it as the society was majorly dominated by men. They dealt with it by holding it all within. Now, you may ask why can’t they do the same even now, why can’t
they hold it within them? I have an idea for this as well, most, most of our parents, grandparents didn’t have to manage two life’s (professional and personal), and so it was ok for them to deal with it. These days, it is already difficult to take both lives in parallel, adding PMS to it just squares the problem for women.</p>

###How to overcome PMS?
Increased intake of fruits and vegetables, reduction in the intake of salt and sugar, regular exercise, fiber-rich foods, eating multiple smaller portions, painkillers and most importantly talking to someone who you trust. If any of these don’t work, you may also seek doctor’s advice, who will mostly prescribe antidepressants to bail you out of PMS.

###Finally,
Girls, you are not alone in this. There are relationships which have been broken because of PMS. It is not you, it’s just your hormones, if known, you can handle it better. There is no shame in speaking about it. For the ladies that are undergoing PMS: let us respect ourselves, for those that have friends unde
rgoing this: let’s help them to stay strong, and for the men that are out there – get to know what PMS is and help your mother, sisters, girlfriends, and your partners to
handle their emotions better.

PMS is not an excuse, it’s a disorder which can be handled better with proper care and support.
